Example Documentation: Style Guide for Unreal Engine 4 
Extra Example Documentation: Tips for Cleaning Blueprints  
Documentation for Steering Wheel: LogitechGamingSteeringWheelSDK.pdf
Primary Contact: dhogue@umich.edu
Previous Year’s Documentation: Data Dictionary
Screenshots of Code: Screenshots of code 


# UNREAL ENGINE 4 Blueprint Documentation Guidelines

1. Naming Conventions

1.1 Variable Naming

1.1.1 Forbidden Characters
White space of any kind 
Backward slashes \ 
Symbols i.e. #!@$% 
Any Unicode character

1.1.2 Non-Boolean Variables
All non-boolean variable names must be clear and descriptive nouns
All non-boolean variables should be in the form of PascalCase 
PascalCase: The first letter of every word is capitalized

1.1.3 Boolean Variables
Booleans should be descriptive adjectives
Booleans should follow PascalCase but have a lowercase letter “b” in front of it
Boolean variables should not be phrased in the form of a question i.e. bIsDead, rather should be bDead
“Is” is reserved for functions

1.1.4 Other Variables
No explicitly naming the type in the identifier
Arrays should be plural nouns

1.1.5 Example Variable Naming
Brake value
Variable type: Non-boolean
Variable naming: BrakeVal
Whether brake sound is played or not
Variable type: Boolean
Variable naming: bBrakeSoundPlayed




2. Blueprint flow

2.1 Graphs

2.1.1 Guidelines
No Spaghetti!
Wires must have a clear start and end. Tangling of wires will lead to bad debugging and reduce the quality of work.
Align wires, not nodes
When aligning nodes together, it is preferable to align the wires themselves rather than the nodes, which helps reduce the wire overlap.

Example Image 2.1.1a

Tips + Shortcuts
You can straighten wires by using the Straighten Connections command with BP nodes selected. Hotkey: Q
White Exec lines (the ones at the top) take precedence over any other line when considering straightening lines.



2.2 Functions

2.2.1 Return Nodes
All functions should have return nodes without any exception
Example image

2.2.1 Total Nodes
Node count should never be over 50.
If it is over, consider splitting the function into two 
Following nodes do not count towards this “Node Count”
Comment
Route
Getters
Cast
Breaking a Struct
Function Entry
Self


3. Comments 

3.1 On-block Comments

3.1.1 Creating on-block comments (Equivalent to block comments)
Usage: [Drag over code blocks then right-click]
Example Image 3.1.1a


3.1.2 On-block color organization
Scale from traffic lights to determine the level of urgency to fix/to complete
USE ONLY a scale between red to green. Level of urgency can also be expressed in the prefix, this just helps with visuals.
Determines if the code is temporary or permanent or needs to be fixed

3.1.3 On Block Comment Formatting
Format of the block code should be as follows
[PREFIX] [description] [TEAM] 

 Examples of each section are listed below:
FIX ME
TODO
%done
[description] Examples
Features (anything that changes/moves something for an end goal go together)
[TEAM] Examples
Platform: PLT
Occlusion: OCC
Data: DATA
Experiments: EXP
Maps: MAP
Roads: ROAD



3.2 Node Comments

3.2.1 Creating Node Comments 
To add a comment directly to a node in a Blueprint graph: Right-click on the node. 
Type a comment into the Node Comment text box in the menu that appears, then press Enter.

3.2.2 Node Comments Formatting
Formatting is as follows:
 [Description] + [Identifier for documentation]
Documenting Node Comments Method
If the description on the node comment itself isn’t enough for someone to understand on its own, label it with an identifier such as: 
“Branch 1 + Documentation”
Then take a screenshot and explain it on the respective document tab to provide further explanation.
Use Occlusion/Platform’s documentation tab as a reference and document the feature shown in the screenshot.



4. Documenting in this document
Sections required for each screenshot part of blueprint:
Main goal
Variables
Branches (this can be multiple parts)
Functions
Block Comments (if applicable)
Flows/Logic

	


4. Other Organizational Methods (OPTIONAL)
4.1 Collapsible nodes
4.1.1 Creating Collapsible nodes
4.1.2 Collapsible nodes formatting

4.2 Bypasses
Bypasses
Use Sequence nodes to create multiple branches of coding that can run independently.
(be careful bc too many then braces will causes delays in running/input)



Style:
Can collapse nodes to make code easier to see.
But could be a problem as certain logic won’t run.
Could also use functions, but that introduces the problem or benefit of local variables.










